go away from descentralized decisions and go to modeling of interactions
descentralized self-focused decisions is the last stage of market interaction
Humans are social animals fundamentally because they have managed to do it in ways that enhance survival of the ones who consent to that interaction
humans evolved with behavioral traits from evolution. We see people who strive to survive and have reciprocity because this worked to survive
So fundamentally humns would like to cooperate to enhance survival but since each organism wants first its own survival, there can non-consented interactions where one agent or group of agents organise themselves to either extract rents from other groups or a subset of a group creates a coalition to impose interactions that enhance cooperation only within that subset at the expense of the rest
If a group wants to cooperate they need to organise in such a way to reward cooperation and punish conflict
organizations, institutions, groups, social norms, appear to do this
The first problem is that humans have fundamental frictions such as cognitive and physical limited and heterogenous capitabilities that in principle can be a problem for cooperation.
Why do we have a firm theory where the benchmark has perfect competition and no frictions when firms as organisations exist precisely to mitigate frictions to be able to enhance cooperation and mitigate conflict?
If humans interact because of this, then when they need to interact in a structured way hen they are precisely not living in a frictionless world and with no conflictive threats
Given that we still have frictions, what is it that firms cannot mitigate all frictions?
This is where technology comes into play
A firm is a group of individuals who interact in a certain way and use technologies to mitigate frictions
the reason we still live in a world with frictions in due to technology
If we modeled a chaotic world and organizations as giving order, one then would need to model the govt as just another organization who is organised either to enhance coperation within a group or to extract resources from outside agents. The problem with the frictionless paradigm is that whenever we model a deviation from that we then do policy by giving tools to an exogenous entity called governmeny who is usually benevolent. 
This way to do research underestimates the capability of private agents to improve upon frictions, and overestimates the govt capability to do this.

Entrepreneurs generate market power within good by either using technology to implement a new way of organising and solving problems, a new way of extracting from out-groups, risking capital, returns to scale (controlling by serviceability), etc. So both Steve Jobs and Hitler are entrepreneurs since they coordinate group cooperation.
Without patents and regulations McDonalds doesn't have mkt power since anyone can open their store next door.
Profit making is just one objective function of an organisation, which if we see it it might be an useful device to cooperate.
Why are militars and police different? the former is created to fight against others preparing for the same. The latter to enforce a pacific environment between third parties




Technology, Institutions, and the State
