Organizations exist to mitigate conflicts or frictions and enhance cooperation. A govt is a special organization but not more than that. Their purpose is to provide defense from outside threats to agents within a territory and use violence to enforce private contracts. Govts at least historically developed in closed territories cause technology to provide this service was better done that way, such as agents from a firm get together in the same territory (office). There are also firms in multiple countries and so multiple govts providing services to the same firm. Firms also have internal rules, voting, politics, persuation, delegation, hirearchies, power, conflict, violence, negotation, etc. Such as private organizations fail to mitigate fully market frictions they intend to deal with, govts are also imperfect at providing their service. If communities can voluntarily (with the pre-existing service of a stable govt) develop social norms, monitoring and enforcement mechanisms, firms, clubs, NGOs, contracts, arbitration, jurisprudence, all this to improve upon market frictions, why is the state different and why do we need it over and above its essential role? What are the frictions that can't be solved voluntarily among private agents by coordinating through organizations and contracting?

The other issue is to look at the world and rationalize arrangements only in terms of efficiency. With a strong govt enforcing contracts, it is much easier to rationalize a private arrangement in terms of both parties benefiting from this than rationalizing something imposed by a govt as something that benefited citizens. This comes from the very nature of govts which is being a monopoly in a service that by its nature entails physical violence. Of course you can always include force as part of parties' bargaining power to make things be the way they want, but it does not seem natural to think that when there is a change in arrangements enforced by the govt, the party with less force is better with that change than without it. If currency political arrangements come from historical struggles by non-elites to get democracy, constitutions and division of power, why is this particular social contract the best for non-elites if it took blood? It's probably not. Such as firm market power is bad for consumers, govt political power is bad for citizens. Tranferring bargaining power to citizens is hard since govts by definition have the monopoly of legitimate violence combined with the usual role of being the ones who dictate and enforce rules. Moreover, moving costs for citizens are high. Therefore govt political power when offering social contracts are quite high compared to firms offering a service to a customer who in this case can choose another competitor with little cost and firms don't have the right to impose contracts.

firms and organizations can use mechanism design by themselves. Science can help as well working with firms. What's the role of the govt?

govts need to provide peace and contract enforcement among producers of drugs

useful to start with human biology, both physiological constraints and evolutionary biology. Even though the latter helps to have stable cooperation, in the end we are different organisms which respond to different brains. Contracts and governance structures are ways to fill in these gaps to cooperate more as collection of organisms which are not yet simbiotic

evo bio: desire to control others and have political power, complex societies as chaotic, external enemy, kin, 


policy implications. science incentives, SITG, scientism, social utility assumption and measure, external validity, epistemology, political frictions, behavioral welfare. All this is controvertial for lack of voluntarism in politics. If scientist works in private govt then it's OK.

Firms coordinate production by pooling savings. If they couldn't coordinate then the govt would need to help start all firms. It all boils down that when someone finance a firm they get rights to ownership and dividends